Welcome to the basic sculpting solution video.
In this video you will see my solution to the define your bunny shape challenge in the last lecture.
So let's quickly remind ourselves of that challenge which was defining your bunny shape.
Hopefully you've gone through you've had lots of fun whilst this is happening.
And let's hop straight on over into blender and define my bunny shape so let's hop back to our.
I love these hop references with the bunny don't you.
Let's hop back to our fluffy bunny and the first thing I'm going to do is actually add in some ears.
So I'm going to place the 3-d cursor on the head roughly in the position I want to generate a bit of
geometry I think let's stop thinking let's go back to our reference material hop around to our.
Other way.
Control.
There we go.
So the is emanate from somewhere around here and roughly at the back of a head.
Perfect.
So I'm going to add in this case a plane I'm going to rotate round on the x axis to roughly the right
angle and scale it in.
So again it's roughly the right size.
Now I'm going to want to scale it in on its own axis x axis as well by the looks of it.
So scale X. So make it a bit flat.
So they're going to pull them in sitting all the way inside our model.
And then I'm going to extrude it up in its own said axis.
In a moment.
So let's go into edit mode and extrude.
In fact that's probably right.
Why frame off.
Well I say that's probably right that's probably massive.
There it go.
So I can rotate that top.
But again on the x axis perfect pulled it up slightly and pull it up.
I'm going to add a loop cuts in the middle here and again scale that outwards.
That's probably made a bit thickness there.
Okay.
Scale back in on the x axis only to make it in again this top it's going to want to be thin anyway so
I'm going to select the face and scale it in on the x axis to make thin ought not push it through one
another.
Okay.
Now this whole top area here I'm going to turn this toggle off limiting selection to visibility so I
can go through my model.
If I wanted to but with that face selected I'm going to pull it over slightly to the side just a little
and I'm going to do the same with this area here so I'm going to use border select to select all the
that top area.
And I'm going to selected something I don't want to select actually.
It's clear my selection select.
It's turned back on board a select and they're selected the face.
Let's go to virtex select and that will eliminate that problem.
Excellent.
And just push that bit over as well.
And probably just select the top here and again this is probably me delving a bit too much into detail.
That's fine.
I'm going to select in object mode.
Both are models.
So then I'm just going to duplicate that has got two ears rather than one so I'm going to use a mere
remodify.
Excellent.
And it's going around the point of origin now I don't want the point of origin to be there I want it
to be at 0 0 0.
So with that in mind let's our mirror object.
If I said it the rabbit itself which is still called metal ball.
So sort that out and apply that's there we go.
That's that's better.
Or a rabbit.
Big is that I can model a bit more detail in a moment.
Let's all already add a subdivision surface modifier.
There we go.
It's already looking a bit better now.
Crank it up by one.
Excellent.
And a lie and go got some curvy bunny is now going to select this top one and the bottom one and merge
them together into one object.
And I'm going to call that rabbits of course because it doesn't have a name at the moment.
Excellent so let's get on to sculpting itself so I'm going to frickin to sculpt mode.
And.
Probably going to subtract first of all around the neck area and then it's just going to go round.
Here is symmetry turned on.
Yes Attis and low my strength a little but widen the brush that's a bit too big because I can zoom in
and say well let's.
I need to tidy up my screen so I can see more.
Pull that across.
I should be fine with that.
They're okay so let's go through here.
It's red tape round that's a bit of a hollow in the back of the neck.
That's probably a little too much at the front so that's go and add.
Now the devil is in the detail when it comes to this.
I'm unhappy with the general body shape so let's focus on the head now.
We're going to have to have a lovely little face here someone going to go to the front for you which
will be control and one for me and turn our.
Image off the back.
I'm going to do a very caricature of a mouth.
It's probably quite accurate as well.
I'm going to subtract because I'm going to be pushing into our model and going any dynamics apology
going on since we've got a lot of detail being made here I'm going to go back into object mode and set
the shading as smooth go back into sculped mode.
K I'm going to need a much smaller brush.
I'm going to make it much smaller and zoom in a little way here.
Now I'm going to define the rabbit's nose mouth as well and I do need symmetry turned on and are fine
straight.
Find out straight away of symmetry is turned on it's enabled dynamic top ology.
I think this is the middle of our model.
Yes it is.
So I'm going to put a straight line down here.
And of course your version of your bunny you can do it how you like and then increase the strength a
little.
So you want this well defined.
Now the nose is something like that.
And the mouse is almost the reverse of that.
And of course I've learned how to jaw rabbits from my stuffed teddy when I was little.
How about that.
Okay enough of my teddies and then see how that looks.
That might be a bit Big actually on our rabbit.
But you know what I'm going to leave it like that.
Let's give it more of a nose as well.
So let's bring up the size of the brush a bit lower.
One of the great things about using the short is you can see how big the brush is actually going to
be life.
I don't want the strength too high but I need to start defining the nose a little more.
That we might want a bigger brush here and smooth that out.
Lesson learnt here.
That's eating away at my changes down here but that's fine.
So I've actually had a brief look at.
A skeleton of a bunny and it doesn't look a thing like what I'm doing here that smooth that out a little
and around there.
Yes we do need a little bit of a dimple in there starting to come together.
Probably a little strong.
Half the problem.
Okay.
And I'm going to smooth some detail around the neck as well.
Excellent.
So that's starting to come together really well.
Now the position of the eyes.
Let's get this accurate.
It's always round here and turn my reference on the eye is there and I'm literally going to do a subtract
at full strength and I'm just going to get the brush roughly the right size.
So let's go in.
There we go.
And I'm just going to draw a round and round in a circle.
To give us the eye sockets that we can work on.
Now of course that looks quite rough there at the moment and you can go round it and smooth it out.
I don't like that at all so let's come back a little more and just do that again.
That's probably not happening here is enough detail.
So I've zoomed right in.
So now we're going to have much more detail when we come in to fill our model in.
And of course that will go down to a certain level.
Then we can click again and found when increase my breast size ever so slightly and undo that last bit.
You'll find yourself undoing lots whilst you're doing this.
Do not worry about it.
There's no perfect way of doing this.
And literally the amount of time you spend doing it will be proportional to the detail that you can
actually put into your model.
It's as simple as that.
The more and more detail you want the longer it will take of course you've got to be careful not to
go too over the top with detail because that's where most of us get caught in drawn in and sucked into
making our models because we end up spending far too much time on the model itself instead of where
the detail actually matters.
And I think this whole is in in the bunny's skull is probably deep enough.
Now let's hop out and see and go around.
Yeah that's absolutely fine.
Now I'm going to turn the strength down as I apply smoothing not zero but a little bit more.
So I just want the area around the eye to be much smoother than that.
So let's go round here and just smooth out the details around here.
So that will make the recess not so big in there.
Perfect.
Then I'd make the brush size just a little small and go around the edge here.
So it's not quite so disastrous.
Kate I don't like this little bit here so we can go back to AD and start adding some stuff back in.
That's absolutely fine.
Moving that house a nice big eye there and whilst I'm here I mean that's that's there.
But we can actually model a rough in place.
So out of sculped mode into object mode I'm going to click there with the 3-d cursor and add ourselves
an eye as well.
Well that's a big big player in.
There we go.
And I'm going to rotate that around so the pole is facing outwards.
So that would be along the y axis.
There we go.
That looks okay to me.
So let's have a quick look around the model and see some areas that we can focus on a little more now
looking at the IS themselves we can actually go and sort some of that out as well.
I'm always conscious of the time I've got in these lectures to show you what's going on.
I've got another five minutes or so so let's crack on and do some modelling with those ears.
Okay so when you spend a bit more time on it you can define a bit more of your model here and you can
see I've gone into a bit more detail around the is itself I've pushed in.
Oh have just clicked.
I just pushed in this area here and help redefine where the mouth is et cetera.
Completely referring to the reference material again.
So one thing I noticed with my reference to in fact looking again I made perhaps a bit too hollow around
here but I did notice that the nose here kind of comes to a point and mine didn't it came to a blob
at the end.
That helps to find the nose a bit better again.
Do bear in mind that the fur itself is being added on top of this mesh so you don't need a super detailed
mesh at the moment.
I can see here that I probably want my ears to be much bigger as well and I'm going to use a proportional
editing tool in a moment in order to just move this knows about the thing it needs lifting up ever so
slightly.
So I'm going to go ahead and go to edit mode.
Wow there's a lot of geometry there.
I'm just going to dissect everything for the moment.
I'm going to select one of these things on the front arm to turn off this see through our model malarkey.
And I'm just going to circle select to select a group of staff at the front of the nose it doesn't really
matter in this case which ones I've selected and then I go to move those but I'm going to use that proportional
editing tool.
So let's turn proportional editing enabled memory go and let's make it nice and big so we can move our
model.
That's quite useful.
In fact we can move a lot of our model if we wanted to which we don't want to.
We just want to move a much smaller area and points up slightly.
But I do need to be in the right for you to do this.
So now I've got VAT's with proportional editing on I'm going to grab it and make sure it's only moving
in the z axis up and down and you can see I can raise it up to roughly the right place and I'm going
to pull it out ever so slightly.
Then I can do a very similar thing.
So this is almost like sculpting again but in a different way we're actually just using proportional
editing to control a model angle to select this area here on ARM model again and whiz around back to
the side after selecting that area.
If I'm right and I'm going to move it again but this time.
Down ever so slightly now because we're locked to this plane.
We should be absolutely fine it shouldn't move in the x axis at all.
Perfect.
Now this fluffy area here I am not too worried about that because we can add that fluff later on the.
Is themselves let's have a look at the years.
So let's spin round and go up here.
Okay so I'm going to say D select what's currently got selected.
Excellent.
And go around to the side view again and use.
Border select.
Just select the top of a I once the top of that area on both so limits a selection to visible turned
off round to the side and let's just select the very top of those is brilliant.
And then we can move those up and because proportional editing is turned on it will do everything and
using the scroll wheel we can change the size of that pocket there.
Let's see how that looks now much bigger is much better.
Perfect.
Let's whiz round and object those who can see what we've got here.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
I'd love to see your bunny rabbits and see how they're coming on.
Did you go for a more caricature of bunny rabbits.
Please share in discussions how you got on what you created and I will see you guys in the next lecture.